User BLIP-2

What is unusual about this image? a man is sitting on the back of a yellow cab

What is unusual about this image? User OpenFlamingo The man is drying his clothes on the hood of his car.

Table 3: Example prompt from GPT-4 paper [36] to compare visual reasoning and chat capabilities. Compared to BLIP-2 [28] and OpenFlamingo [5], LLaVA accurately follows the user’s instructions, instead of simply describing the scene. LLaVA offers a more comprehensive response than GPT-4. Even when merely asked to describe the image, LLaVA identiﬁes atypical aspects of the image.

Surprisingly, although LLaVA is trained with a small multimodal instruction-following dataset 80K unique images), it demonstrates quite similar reasoning results with multimodal GPT-4 on ( ⇠ these examples. Note that while these images are out-of-domain for LLaVA, LLaVA is still able to understand the scenes and follow the question instruction to provide a reasonable response. In contrast, BLIP-2 and OpenFlamingo focus on describing the image, instead of following the user instruction to answer in an appropriate manner.

Quantitative Evaluation. To gain a systematic understanding of the performance of LLaVA, we propose a quantitative metric to measure the model’s instruction-following capability on multimodal data. Inspired by [9], we leverage GPT-4 to measure the quality of generated responses. Speciﬁcally, we create triplets consisting of image, ground-truth textual descriptions, and question. The candidate models (e.g., LLaVA) predict the answers based on the question and the image. To provide an approximate theoretical upper bound, we create a reference prediction based on the question and the ground-truth textual descriptions, using the text-only GPT-4. After obtaining the responses from both models, we feed the question, visual information (in the format of textual descriptions), and the generated responses from both assistants, to the judge (i.e., text-only GPT-4). It evaluates the helpfulness, relevance, accuracy, and level of detail of the responses from the assistants, and gives an overall score on a scale of 1 to 10, where a higher score indicates better overall performance. It is also asked to provide a comprehensive explanation for the evaluation, for us to better understand the

6