5.1 Multimodal Chatbot

We developed a chatbot demo to show the image understanding and conversation abilities of LLaVA, and to study how well LLaVA is able to digest visual inputs and exhibit instruction-following capabilities. We ﬁrst use the examples in the original GPT-4 paper [36], shown in Table 3 (more examples in Appendix), that require in-depth image understanding. For comparisons, we quote the prompt and response of the multimodal GPT-4 from their paper, and query BLIP-2 and OpenFlamingo model checkpoints to get their response.

5

Visual input example, Extreme Ironing:

Source: https://www.barnorama.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/03-Confusing-Pictures.jpg What is unusual about this image? The unusual aspect of this image is a man ironing clothes on the back of a minivan or van. This is not a typical place to perform this activity, as one would usually iron clothes in a more stationary and safe location, such as a home, using a regular ironing board. The scene depicted in the image is peculiar as it involves a makeshift ironing setup on a vehicle, which can be both unsafe and unconventional. Additionally, it is not clear how the man is able to maintain balance and stability while ironing clothes in such an unstable environment. [Start a new conversation, and clear the history] What’s happening in the scene? The image depicts a man standing on top of a yellow SUV in a busy city street. He is holding a portable ladder, seemingly ironing clothes while standing on the vehicle. Around the scene, there are other cars, a trafﬁc light, and a ﬁre hydrant. Additionally, there are two other people in the vicinity, one close to the man on the car and another further away. The man on the ladder appears to be attracting attention due to his unconventional choice of ironing his clothes on top of a moving car. The city street around him is bustling with activity, adding to the unique nature of the scene.

User LLaVA

User LLaVA

User What’s happening in the scene?

User GPT-4 [36]

What is unusual about this image? The unusual thing about this image is that a man is ironing clothes on an ironing board attached to the roof of a moving taxi.

User What is unusual about this image?